---
sidebar: [
    {
        title: 'Test',
        path: /contribute/editing/frontmatter
    }
]
---
# Frontmatter

## Overview

Markdown frontmatter is a method of tagging a file with metadata. This website can read the frontmatter from a submitted document and use it when rendering a page in order to include special features. For example, the 'prev' and 'next' tags in a page's frontmatter will let the website know what the previous and next pages should be, so links to them will be generated at the bottom of the page.

Frontmatter is not a required element, and can be omitted if you are not comfortable attempting to write it, or if you don't believe it is necessary for your contribution.

## Getting Started

Frontmatter is placed at the very top of your .md file, enclosed by two lines of triple dashes:
```
---
<frontmatter goes here>
---
```

frontmatter is written as key-value pairs, with the key written first, and a colon separating it from its value. Each new pair should be placed on its own line, staying within the triple dashes, and no end of line indicator is needed.

## Common Frontmatter Keys you Might Use

"title" - This will add a title to a specific page. The title will be displayed by browser tabs. If this tag is omitted, the value of your first # header will be used as the page title
```
---
title: frontmatter docs
---
```
"author" - This will tag the page with the name of the author
```
---
author: ar.io team
---
```
"prev" and "next" - These keys will override any file order settings generated by the sidebar configuration. At the bottom left of the page will be a "previous" button that will link to the "prev" page indicated by the "prev" key. On the bottom right of the page will be a "next" button that will link to the "next" page. Each value can be set with a link to a specific page (absolute or relative), or the value "false" to turn it off completely.
```
---
prev: ./what-is-md
next: /contribute/editing/md-syntax
---
```
"sidebar" - If you have a page with a lot of sections, you can override the configured sidebar and have your page generate a new one based on the contents of your specific page. To do this, set the value of sidebar to "auto"
```
---
sidebar: auto
---
```
There are also more advanced options for creating custom sidebar options within a frontmatter block, which will be addressed later.

## Other Frontmatter Keys

There are a number of other recognized frontmatter keys that can be added to a file if you wish, though they will not be used by the website. For example, "keywords" and "tags" allow you to tag your page with tags that may help in finding the page through search engines, but have no effect on the page or website itself. 

You can also create your own custom frontmatter keys to indicate anything you would like. They will exist in the raw code of your document, they just will not have any effect on anything.